[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So my father taught me
visualization when I was 10
years old.
Basically, I had very
bad migraine headaches.
I used to get them every night.
And aspirin wouldn't work,
and nothing would work.
And I'd spend hours in
a dark room in pain.
And my father was a dentist,
and he used visualization
for pain management
with his clients.
So he took me on this
kind of adventure.
What he did was he relaxes--
here, I'm going to relax.
Let's relax your
head and your legs.
And we went through
this relaxation process.
And he said, I'd
like you to imagine
that you're at the top of this
ski slope we used to ski at.
Our favorite ski
slope was called
Waterville Valley, Valley Run.
I'd like you to imagine you're
at the top of this ski slope
and you've got this big bucket
of black sand on your shoulder.
And we're just going
to ski down slowly.
It's a beautiful day.
And you're going to spill
the black sand as you ski.
And when we got about
halfway down the slope,
he said, OK, the sand is
about halfway empty now.
And he said, the sand
is your headache.
And the more it spills
out, the more your
headaches going to go away.
And my headache was about
halfway gone at that time.
And then we gradually
went through,
and there was this
beautiful adventure.
And it was very
relaxing and soothing.
We got down to the
bottom of the hill.
The sand was gone.
And he said, now
your headache's gone.
Open your eyes and you'll see
that your headache's gone.
I opened my eyes.
My headache was gone.
It was the only thing that
ever cured my headaches.
It was miraculous.
It was unbelievable.
And eventually, I
learned to do it myself.
It took me about 20 minutes
to get into the relaxed state
and do the
visualization, and I was
able to get rid of the headache.
And then he taught me
this other technique,
where if you're having--
when you have a
migraine headache,
you're going to have it on one
side of your head of the other.
So if it's on your
left side, you
imagine your left hand
getting really, really hot.
And I would imagine my left
hand getting really hot.
And I'd imagine the headache
going into my left hand.
And my hand would get hotter,
and the headache would go away.
And eventually, I
got so good at it--
so this went on for years.
And eventually, I
got so good at it
that whenever I was
about to get a headache,
I would touch my finger
to the part of my head
where I was going
to have a headache
and I would just imagine
that the headache was
going into my finger.
And I could feel it going,
and I'd just flick it away.
And then I never
got migraines again.
And once or twice in
the last 30 years,
I've gotten the
signs of a migraine.
And I do this thing,
and it would just go.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Yeah, so visualization was
a really important part
of my weight loss journey.
I had tried to lose
weight for years.
I met with Dr. Atkins.
I went to the
Pritikin Institute.
I tried every diet
you can imagine.
I just kept gaining and gaining.
And eventually, I
was over 400 pounds
and I had given up entirely.
At a certain point, I decided
to apply visualization
to my weight loss.
And when I did,
everything changed.
I was over 400 pounds.
I had a vivid image of
how I wanted to look.
I imagined myself with stomach
muscles, tight skin and stomach
muscles, and looking great.
And every night as I went to
sleep, I'd have this image.
And things started to change.
I wasn't as hungry
during the day.
I wasn't craving junk food.
I started finding people
that could help me
and programs that-- everything
started to work after that.
And over a 2 and
1/2 year period,
I lost all the weight
that I had gained.
And I lost 220 pounds.
And I looked exactly the way
I had imagined myself looking
down to a T, and I
just can't believe
that it's a coincidence.
Because it was just exactly the
shape and the form that I had
imagined being.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So visualization is using
the language of symbols.
And to me, symbols
are the universal form
of communication.
If you want to
communicate with someone
that doesn't speak
your language,
you're going to use symbols.
For example, if you
just landed in China
and you want to know
where the bathroom is,
you're going to
look for a symbol.
You're going to look for
a symbol of the men's
room or the woman's
room, and that's
how you know where
the bathroom is.
So that's how you communicate
with someone when-- that
doesn't speak your language.
And the interesting
thing about the body,
we see the body
mostly as a machine.
But the body isn't
really a machine.
The body is living
consciousness.
We just don't know how
to communicate with it.
It doesn't speak English.
We can't say to it,
"I want to lose weight
because in six months I want
to look good for my wedding."
The body doesn't
understand a wedding.
It doesn't understand
six months.
It doesn't understand English.
And one of the biggest
problems that we all have,
that we don't even
know we have, is
we don't know how to
communicate with our own animal
brain, our own physical
consciousness brain.
But when you use symbols,
you're bridging that gap.
So when you make a vivid
image of exactly the way
you'd like to look--
or if you're doing
sports, a vivid image
of exactly the way you'd
like your body to perform--
you're communicating
to your body.
And all the changes
are taking place--
so the neuronal changes,
the hormonal changes.
Everything is changing
because you've now
been able to communicate
with your body.
And that's why visualization
is so powerful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So to me, visualization is the
creative principle of life.
And I think we've
just all lost that.
I think in indigenous
cultures all around the world,
they all use visualization.
And as a kid, we used
dream, we used imagination,
we used that creative faculty.
And I think it is the
creative faculty of life.
It is the way to set the
dials of the automatic pilot,
if you're in a plane.
You know, it's like setting
the dials of your life.
When you visualize
where you want to be,
you're setting the dials.
When you visualize how
you want your day to be,
how you want to
perform in sports,
how healthy you
want to be, you're
using that creative principle.
We don't know that.
We haven't tapped into that.
But it's ours.
We lost it somewhere
along the way,
but it belongs to all of us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Nine-time gold medal sprinter
Carl Lewis uses visualization.
Tiger Woods, Arnold
Schwarzenegger, Muhammad Ali,
Michael Jordan--
all the greats in
every area of sport--
tennis legend Billie Jean King--
they all use visualization.
Tiger Woods' father taught
him how to use visualization.
He says that every time
before he hits the ball,
he visualizes where
he wants it to go.
Arnold Schwarzenegger,
when he was a bodybuilder,
he visualized exactly how
he wanted his body to look.
If his biceps-- he
wanted his biceps bigger,
he visualized his biceps bigger.
He'd visualize himself up
on stage winning the Mr.
Olympia, the Mr. Universe.
When he was an actor, he
visualized being an actor
and just crushing it.
When he was in
politics, he used it.
In everything he did,
he used visualization.
And that's why he's always
been successful at the things
that he's been focused on
because he's using this power.
So many different experts in
so many different fields--
also actors.
There's the story
of Jim Carrey, where
he was a starving actor and
he wrote a check for himself
for $10 million dollars.
He dated it three years in the
future and said "For acting
services rendered."
Three years later, he got
a check for $10 million
for the movie "Dumb and Dumber."
Exactly three years to the
day-- it's unbelievable.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I know a little bit.
So for example, Carl Lewis would
imagine going through the tape
first.
That would be his thing.
So he used to program that
before he'd go to sleep.
And when he'd do his
own little practices,
he'd imagine breaking
the tape first.
And then just as he's
lining up to do the race,
he'd see himself
breaking the tape first.
And that was his thing.
Michael Jordan always
would visualize himself
at night getting the ball
in one after the other, one
after the other.
Before he's about
to take a shot,
he can just see it going in.
Muhammad Ali, just one of the
world's greatest in every way,
would see himself
knocking on his opponent.
He would visualize it
over and over again.
Arnold Schwarzenegger,
even when he did a speech
as a politician, before
he did the speech
he would visualize
it over and over
and over and over, just getting
up there, doing the speech,
and just killing it.
And he did that in every aspect.
It's just that when you learn
that visualization is the way--
the thing that you need to do
to succeed and how easy it is
and how you get better
and better at it, you just
keep doing it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When you understand
the language of symbols
and how powerful
visualization is,
you understand how detrimental
negative self-talk is.
Because if you want
to lose weight,
for example, and you look
at yourself in the mirror
and you go, "Oh, my god.
You're so fat," what do you see?
What's the image that you see?
You see yourself fat.
Then you're communicating
to your body
that that's the way
you're meant to look.
Whereas if you're looking
in the mirror and you say,
"You know what?
You're beautiful.
You can do this.
You are effortlessly
thin," you're
making an image inside your
head of someone who's beautiful,
of someone who's fit,
of someone who's thin.
And you're communicating.
You're using the
power of visualization
to communicate to your body that
that's what you're meant to be.
And then it works in a positive
way instead of a negative way.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
There's some amazing
studies that have come out
about the power of belief.
And they've come out
from the oddest place,
and that is from
pharmaceutical companies
using placebos and trying to
beat the placebo for whatever
drug they have.
And what they're finding is
not how powerful their drug is,
but how powerful beliefs are.
For example, there have
been studies where they do--
they're testing
the effectiveness
of an antidepressant.
Now the antidepressant
is supposed
to raise dopamine levels.
So they have one group
where they give them
the antidepressant and another
group where that's not--
it's a placebo.
It means that they're
just given a sugar pill.
Not only do those people--
are those people no
longer depressed,
their dopamine levels raise.
In other words, they
actually thought--
that just from the
power belief, they
thought a specific
neurotransmitter
would get elevated.
And they were able to elevate
a specific neurotransmitter
simply by the power
of their belief.
Another amazing study that
came out was with knee surgery.
They were trying to test one
knee surgery versus the other.
So they had-- one group
had one knee surgery.
The other group had a
different knee surgery.
And a third group
had no knee surgery,
but thought they
had knee surgery.
And that group recovered
just as well, if not better,
than the ones that
had the knee surgery.
Just because they thought
they had knee surgery,
they were able to
heal themselves simply
through the power
of their beliefs.
The power of placebo on
beliefs is so amazing
that that's really what
we should be studying,
and we're not studying that.
What we're doing is
we're bumping into it.
Every time a pharmaceutical
company wants to beat a study,
it bumps into it.
But we should be studying
how powerful beliefs are.
There was another study
with chemotherapy.
They were trying to test the
effectiveness of chemotherapy.
And they had-- one group
had the chemotherapy.
Another group thought they
were getting chemotherapy
but weren't.
The group that thought they
were getting chemotherapy,
30% of them lost their hair.
They lost their hair
because they thought
they were getting chemotherapy.
With the power of our
beliefs, we have the power
to lose hair simply because we
think that we're supposed to,
we have the power to
raise dopamine levels
to heal surgery.
All of these different
things we can
do with the power of our mind,
and no one is studying it.
Our beliefs, our power in our
beliefs and in the way we think
is so unbelievable, and
it's completely untapped.
Nobody is looking at it.
And the interesting thing is
when you learn visualization,
you learn how to
change your beliefs,
but also instill the beliefs
very, very powerfully.
So if you believe you're
going to be really successful,
you're going to be the
champion, you're going to win,
and you really believe
it and you have the power
to instill those beliefs
with visualization, that's
a combination for success.
Look at "Eddie the Eagle,"
the movie that just came out
about the guy in
England that always
wanted to be a ski jumper.
And he just kept
going and going.
From the moment he was
six or seven years old,
he'd walk out the door.
And his mom says, "Where
are you going, hun?"
And he goes, "I'm going
to the Olympics, mom."
And she goes, "Oh, well, you
better take your medal box
to put your medals in."
You know, he believed
it, and he believed it,
and he believed it, and he
became an Olympic ski jumper.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Yeah.
So the way I learned
visualization, you know,
my father put me in
a very deep state.
And I actually learned later--
many years later--
that I was getting
into what's called the
alpha and the theta
states of consciousness.
And in the alpha and the
theta states of consciousness,
you're much more focused
and your brainwaves
are much more powerful.
Because they're more
powerful, you're
able to make brain
connections better.
What makes you good at something
is repetition or practice.
If I were to juggle
for the first time,
the balls would be going
all over the place.
If I did it every
single day for 10 years,
I could do it while
talking, walking.
It's practice.
You're making brain connections.
Every time you try
to do something,
you're making a
brain connection.
But when you're in the
alpha and the theta
states of consciousness and
you try to do something,
you are then--
you are making brain
connections much, much quicker.
So what might take you
years of daily practice
you can do in days when you're
in the alpha and theta state.
So that's why when you look
at the Olympic athletes
and the basketball players that
are doing these visualizations
where they're imagining
taking the shot over
and over again or imagining
doing their sport over
and over again, and
they're in that deep alpha
and theta state, they're making
those brain connections so
quick that it's actually a more
effective form of rehearsal
than actually doing
the sport sometimes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So you know, as
kids we are normally
in this deep state, a dream
state, this alpha and the theta
state.
We get into it really easy.
And then we learn that--
we unlearn that
because, you know,
our teacher says stop
dreaming, state focused.
So we lose that.
But getting-- learning how to
get back into that dream state
is the key to being
successful in visualization--
so learning how
to relax yourself.
So the first step
in visualization
is you want to know
how to relax yourself.
So you can breathe deep, do
just a simple meditation.
I like to use the
imagery of light.
I imagine light going
through my body.
And as I learned later
in life, imagining
light going through
your body is actually
opening up your invisible
life force channels.
And that puts you in a deeper
and more powerful state.
So I imagine light--
I breathe-- you can breathe
light into your belly
and breathe it out again.
You can imagine light
going all through your body
and relaxing and healing
every place it touches.
At a certain point
when you do that--
it might take you a
couple of minutes,
it might take you longer--
you're going to
feel really relaxed.
And you're not going to want
to--you're not fidgeting
anymore.
Then you're in a deeper state.
Maybe you're not-- your
mind's not fidgeting either.
That's the time to
do visualization.
And when you do it
then, it just imprints.
You just get it.
So then you want
to imagine or feel.
It doesn't necessarily--
you don't have to see it.
A lot of times when you
first learn visualization,
you can't see it.
It's a skill that you get
better and better at over time,
but you can feel it.
You can feel what it feels to
run faster than the other guy
or to have the weight
melting off of your body
or to achieve whatever
athletic performance.
You can feel what it feels like.
You can hear the crowd shouting.
You can feel the wind on your
face as you're running by.
And you can imagine
different things.
And eventually, by using as much
of your senses as possible--
what it feels like,
what it looks like,
what it smells like,
what it sounds like--
by using all those senses
when you're in the scene,
then you're imprinting into
all of your different neurons
the specific desired
result that you want.
And they've done
a lot of studies
where, when an athlete does
visualization, the muscles,
neurons, nerves,
they're all firing
in the exact same
coordinated sequence
as if you're actually
doing the sport.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So a lot of ancient medical
traditions such as Chinese
and Indian, the very foundation
of their medical philosophy
is that we have an invisible
energy that animates
us called life force energy.
They call it chi, they call it
prana, but it's our life force.
It's the difference between
a live body and a dead body.
A live body has life force.
And that life force is--
then animates the body
and allows it to move.
Now that life force is
moved through our thoughts
and through our visions
and through our images.
We can move that life force with
visualization, with thoughts.
And a simple experiment--
I can just prove it to you.
If I basically-- if I just
try to move my finger,
right, it's a thought.
A thought is not visible,
is not a physical thing.
Using the power of
my thought-- boom--
I've just moved my finger.
How did that happen?
Well, according to eastern
medicine what's happening
is a thought is a vibration.
It's an invisible energy.
But it's not strong
enough to move matter
so you need this interface--
this life force energy then
gets vibrated by the thought,
which then is strong enough
to move the electrons in your
neurons, which then creates
this cascade of movement through
muscles and nerves and things.
But it's the life force
energy that moves--
it moves us.
And it's the mind that
moves the life force energy.
So you-- learning how
to do visualization,
you are learning how
to move your life force
energy through your body.
And as you learn to
move the life force
energy through your body,
you can heal your body,
you can strengthen
your body, and you
can revitalize your body.
What I've learned over the years
is that this invisible life
force energy is everywhere.
And there's no limit
to how much of it
you can channel
through your body,
except for the fact
that the channels--
they're called
acupuncture meridians,
or they're called nadis
in Indian tradition.
The channels that hold this life
force energy can get blocked.
They can get
blocked from toxins.
They can get blocked from
negative thoughts, from fears.
We block it and then
literally we cut ourselves off
from life force.
We are de-vitalized.
Our vitality can't flow.
Well, you can use your mind in
visualization to guide the life
force energy through
all the different life
force channels in your body
and, by doing so, unblock them.
And then you become a channel
to unlimited life force energy.
It just can flow through you.
And you can then use that to
achieve the greatness that you
want to achieve in the world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So there's been some really
cool studies with visualization.
There's an Australian
researcher, Alan Richardson.
He took three groups
of basketball players.
One group did free throws for 20
minutes every day for 30 days.
One group imagined doing
free throws for 20 minutes
everyday for 30 days.
And another group did nothing.
So the group that
did free throws
every day got 24% better.
The group that imagined
doing free throws
got 23% better
just by imagining.
They didn't shoot a single
hoop and they got 23% better.
And then the group that didn't,
they didn't get any better.
So simply by imagining
doing your free throws,
they were able to get better.
And then there was another
study with weightlifters,
where they had one group doing
a certain amount of weight
lifting every day and another
group just imagining they
were doing weightlifting.
They didn't lift
a single weight.
And then another third
group that didn't.
The group that lifted
every day, they
got 20-some-odd
percent stronger.
The group that imagined lifting,
but didn't lift a single pound,
got 13% stronger
simply by imagining.
And then the other group
didn't get any stronger at all.
And what they
found in that study
was that the group that
imagined lifting weights, all
their muscles and neurons were
being fired as if they were
actually lifting the weights.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So as a result of the
visualization that I've done,
I started doing a
lot of meditating.
Because what happens is when
you get into that relaxed state,
you don't want to leave it.
And I sort of became
addicted to it.
And if you're going to
become addicted to anything,
become addicted to meditation.
So I've become
addicted to meditation,
and I spend hours a
day doing it sometimes.
And I love it.
But what I learned
is that it actually
can increase your intuition.
And the intuition,
to me, I've come
to realize is like
another sense.
It's a sense that can make
you aware of the future
or aware of what's
happening around you that's
not physically in your space.
And there's actually
a lot of science
to support the concept that
an intuitive sense would
be a valid sense.
And that is that we know
that time doesn't exist.
So according to
quantum physics, we
know that time does not exist.
That is that our mind
and our five senses
give us this illusion
of the world that's
not really accurate.
Our mind tells us there's a
past, a present, and a future,
and that's all we know.
But quantum physics tells
us that there is not a past,
present, and future.
There is an eternal present and
it's all happening right now,
but we can't see it.
Now why can't we see it?
We can't see it because
we don't have the sense
to see it the same way
that we can't see x-rays,
we can't see radio
waves, we can't
hear frequencies that are
above the auditory spectrum,
we can't taste
things that are not
within our taste bud spectrums.
So we have this limited
version of reality.
And one of the things
that we can't see
is the reality that all
time is happening right now.
But what I have learned
is that meditation allows
you to develop that sense.
A lot of people call
it a "sixth sense."
Because we have five
senses, it's a sixth sense.
And the reason why meditation
develops your intuition
or your sixth sense is because
you are giving yourself
an opportunity to strengthen it.
The analogy that I always use
is a kid who has a lazy eye.
So if a kid has a
lazy eye, it means
that the muscles of the lazy
eye are not working well.
So what you do is you put
a patch on the good eye
for a week.
I remember when I
was a baby sitter,
I had a kid that
I was babysitting.
He was five years old,
and he had a lazy eye.
For a week, he had a
patch on his good eye.
And that forces the lazy eye,
the muscles of the lazy eye
to get stronger and
stronger until, when
you took the patch off,
they could both work
at the same-- in tandem.
When you're meditating,
it's like putting a patch
on your five senses.
Basically, you're alive and
you're awake and you're aware,
but you're not taking in
information from your five
senses.
So you start to strengthen
your other sense, which
is a feeling sense.
You get a feeling for
what's going to happen.
You get a feeling
for where to go.
You get a feeling for
who you're talking to.
You get a feeling for what
your life's purpose should be.
And it's such a powerful sense.
It's like the difference
between seeing and not seeing.
This is feeling-- feeling
what you're meant to be doing,
feeling where you
should be going.
I have-- one of our
coaches that we work with,
she went to a movie in
Aurora, Colorado in 2012.
It was the midnight screening
of "Batman Returns."
She walks into the theater.
And she says to her friend,
"We got to get out of here.
This is wrong."
And her friend says, "What
are you talking about?
This is the midnight
screening of Batman Returns.
You know how hard it was
to get these tickets?"
And she said, "We are walking
out of this theater right now."
She grabbed her by the hand.
She took her out of the theater.
20 minutes later, a man
opened up and fired and shot
70 people.
It was the Aurora,
Colorado, shooting.
She knew.
How did she know?
Is that coincidence?
Can you possibly chalk
that up to coincidence?
You can not.
It is a sense that
she has developed,
that we all can develop,
simply by sitting
and, through meditation,
allowing that sense to mature
and to develop.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
For me, as I'm learning
more and more in my life,
the key to happiness
is life force vitality.
So through my meditations
and my visualizations,
I allow lots of life force
vitality to run through me.
It always-- it keeps me young.
It keeps me vibrant.
It puts me in the right path.
And part of increasing
life force vitality
is eating foods that have
more life force vitality.
All energy on this planet
comes from the sun.
That's where
everything comes from.
So the sun will-- the plants
get energy from the sun.
And they convert that into fats,
carbohydrates, and proteins.
And then we do all kinds
of crazy things with it,
and we process it, and we
put pesticides and herbicides
and toxins, and then
we microwave it,
and we irradiate
it, and we deep fry
it and all this type of stuff.
But really, once we do
that, by the time we eat it,
our body is trying to break
it down and get that sunlight
again.
And it's too far away.
And that's why we're
sick all the time.
It's just all this excess waste
and junk and cellular breakdown
and hormonal problems because
the food is too far away
from life force vitality.
So in the process of
being a peak athlete
or living your life's
purpose or just
having the body that you
want and being happy,
you have to add foods that
have life force vitality.
You want to get as close
to sunlight as possible.
And that's real
simple-- for instance,
green leafy vegetables.
It doesn't mean that's
all you have to eat.
But green leafy vegetables,
sprouts, fermented foods--
these foods heal and
nourish and give you
the vitality that you need
to live your life's purpose.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
For me, the criteria of a
food is it has to be real--
that is, that it's
not man-made and we
haven't tampered with it.
Because when we make food,
when we process foods,
the manufacturers
that process foods,
they're doing it for
them, not for you.
They're doing it because
it makes it cheaper,
they don't have to refrigerate
it, it has a longer shelf life,
it's addictive.
And that's great for them.
It's not great for you.
What's great for you is
food that nourishes you.
And that is real food,
not man-made food.
As soon as we start
tampering with it,
it causes all kinds of problems.
So for me, the criteria of what
I eat is it has to be real.
If you were living on an
island 10,000 years ago,
what could you eat?
You could-- there's
animal proteins.
There's salads.
There's nuts.
There's seeds.
There's fruits.
It's all real.
It's all mostly live and as
close to nature as possible.
Everything I eat is real.
It's a real food diet, and
it works really well for me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So the food industry is a
trillion dollar industry.
I mean, let's face it, there's
billions of people's spending
$50, $100 a week on food.
It's a trillion dollar industry.
And the people that are the
biggest players in the food
industry, they know how
to make food taste good,
but that doesn't mean that
it's necessarily good for you.
They know how to make
you addicted to the food.
They know how to pay all
the fancy celebrities
so that you think it's cool.
They know how to give you that
instant rush so that you think
it's something that's supposedly
energy, when really it's
just hormonal casts.
They know how to do
all these things.
But it's really up to us
to take our health back
into our own hands, to educate,
and to become aware of the fact
that those foods are some
of the worst poisons you
can put in your body.
And it's a really
devious type of poison
because it's not-- you
don't drop dead instantly.
But you get type 2 diabetes,
you become overweight,
you get heart problems,
you get cancers.
And then you go to the
pharmaceutical industry, which
are owned by the same people.
And they're giving you all these
pills, which are also toxic.
And it just cascades.
When, really, what we need
to do is stop buying into it
and just eat what was put
on this earth as real food,
as simple as possible.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think that anybody can
achieve pretty much anything
that they want to.
I think the sky is
the limit, and I think
there's a science behind it.
And I think-- the more
I'm learning about what
my life's purpose is and
what the whole meaning
of life's purpose is, I'm
starting to understand that we
all have a purpose--
every single one of us.
And it's not necessarily
a thing like I'm
going to be an accountant
or going to be a lawyer.
Every minute it changes,
but we all have a purpose
and we can tap
into that purpose.
And for me, what I've
learned over the years
is the way to tap into that
purpose is really simple.
That purpose is all
around us invisibly.
We can't see it.
As I've said before,
we have five senses.
It's giving us
0.001% of reality.
But what I have learned
and what quantum physics
teaches us also is we are
in an ocean of energy.
And it's an ocean
of conscious energy
that you can
channel through you.
And when you channel that energy
through you, it will guide you
and you will be living
your life's purpose.
And I know this
from trial and error
over years and
years and years now.
That when I get into
a meditative state
and I open up my energy channels
through a visualization where
I'm imagining light
going through my body
and I'm tapping into
this infinite energy,
I feel it go through me
and I just surrender to it
and I ask it to guide me.
And when I do that, I know
that every minute of that day
I'm going to be living
my life's purpose.
And I don't even have to think
about and say I want to be this
or I want to be that.
I can see it.
I can see that I'm meant to
be going here or doing this
or communicating with that.
And the whole world
opens up, and it
becomes a magical adventure.
Because you're not
out there trying to--
with your head and
your mind trying
to force things to happen.
You're going in, and you're
tapping into unlimited energy.
And that unlimited energy
will keep you young.
It will keep you strong.
It will keep you vital.
And it will keep you
always on your purpose.
Because when that energy
is moving through you,
you are always living
your life's purpose.
[MUSIC PLAYING]